
    The  Nandan Van Zoo & Safari, Naya Raipur is located at 35 km from the main Raipur Railway station, 30 km from the Raipur Bus Stand and 15 km from the Swami Vivekananda Airport Raipur. Its gross area is 202.87 Hectare. It is adjacent to the wetted perimeter of perennial Khandwa Dam.

    Master Plan is prepared by Learn Nature Consultants <http://www.lncindia.com> Raipur and approved by Central Zoo Authority of India.

Mission & Vision :

    The Nandan Van Zoo & Safari (Jungle Safari,Naya Raipur)will become an important focus for Chhattisgarh and their interest in living in a world where people of all ages are not only delighted by the diversity of the living world that surrounds us, but are committed to protecting the integrity of its “wild life” and “wild places”.

Objectives-:

    To create a Wild Life Conservation & Awareness centre for the people of Chhattisgarh and for the Tourists across the World.

    To create a natural, wild education, research cum amusement centre for the people of Naya Raipur.

    To complement and strengthen the national efforts in conservation of fauna.

The Whole 202.87 Ha area is planned into 8 Zone

    Monument Zone

    Parking Zone

(Parking space for more than 100 Buses, 300 Cars and 640 Two wheelers along with visitor’s and Driver’s Facilities.)

3. Administrative Zone

( Office and Residential Spaces for the official appointed for the Management)

4.Water Zone

( Special Features Like Floating Garden, Water Birds Area, Pathways )

5.Waiting Zone

( This Zone is especially for entertainment purpose of visitors as it has the features like Amphi-theatre, I-Max Theatre, Canteens,Food Courts,Museum, Orientation Center,Floating Deck,Nature Camp)

6.Zoo Zone

The Zoo Zone has many Animal Enclosure with the Landscape theme of Indian Biographical Zone.

7.Safari Zone

This Zone has 4 Safari i.e.,

    Herbivore Safari,
    Bear Safari,
    Tiger Safari
    Lion Safari

8.Management Zone

(The No-Visitors Area having Veterinary Hospital, Rescue Center,Conservation & Breeding center and more)